&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The idea of the email app is that a user won't receive emails from anyone not in their contacts. A user adds the usernames of the people they want to allow to communicate with them. This precludes social engineering attacks of poeple pretending to be someone you know (if it's not really the person in your contacts then the email won't be sent to you, and the sender will be informed that they aren't in your contacts), and it eliminates all spam.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Virus Total's web service is used to scan file attachments for viruses. If the file contains a virus then the email isn't sent, and the sender of the email is told so.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When the user logs in to their account, the server sends them the most recent emails in their inbox. The server doesn't send them the entire inbox because people rarely look at old emails. The user can request groups of old emails (emails that have been in the user's inbox longer than the ones the user has on their screen). You can also request new emails, meaning you can ask the server to send them emails that people in your contacts have sent to you since the time you last asked for new emails.<br/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The server's group size is currently set to 25, which means that when the user logs in, the 25 newest emails in their inbox are sent to them, and whenever they ask for old emails the server will send the 25 emails in the inbox that are older than the oldest email the user has on their screen. However, when the user asks for new emails, all the new emails, even if the number exceeds 25, are sent.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Whenever a user requests the server to do something, such as send an email or return a file, the user provides the server with their username and password. The username is provided so the server can know which account to do the action for (and, in the case of sending emails, to know also so it can know if you're in the receiver's contacts). The password is provided so the server can verify the user is who they say they are (that they actually are the person with the username they are claiming is theirs). Anyone can look at the client side code and anyone can see what endpoints are used to do which thing, so if a user only had to provide a username then they could copy the client-side code and tweak it, or write their own to connect to the server, and provide somedboy els'se suername. usernames are public knowledge (at the bare minimum anyone who can contact you knows your username), but the passwords are private, so having the passwords sent as well ensures that people can't access others' accounts.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Future work on the project should be done so that read emails are shaded gray like in gmail, that a user should be informed when someone tries to send an email with a file containg a virus, and functinality to the logout button.
